Migrated 'How to reference another project by name' (#3316)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/doc/book/using/referencing-another-project-by-name.adoc

---
layout: section
title: Referencing another project by name
---

= Referencing another project by name

> In many places throughout Jenkins, you can refer to another project/job by name. For example, in a Pipeline Script, you might want to https://plugins.jenkins.io/copyartifact/[copy artifacts] from another project:

Reviewer: Can use the `plugin` macro rather than the full URL to the plugin
```suggestion
In many places throughout Jenkins, you can refer to another project/job by name. For example, in a Pipeline Script, you might want to plugin:copyartifact/[copy artifacts] from another project:
```

....
copyArtifacts projectName: 'myproject'
....

That's all you need to do if your target project's name is simply alphanumeric, and is a simple project without subprojects, and has a unique name throughout your entire Jenkins instance. Read on for more complex scenarios…

== Differentiating between multiple projects with the same name

> If you're using the https://plugins.jenkins.io/cloudbees-folder/[Folders Plugin] and you have multiple projects with the same name but are in different folders, you can differentiate between them using a path, similar to a Unix filesystem path. There are two types of paths:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using the plugin:cloudbees-folder[Folders Plugin] and you have multiple projects with the same name that are in different folders, you can differentiate between them using a path, similar to a Unix filesystem path. There are two types of paths:
```

the root of your Jenkins instance:

....
/myproject
....

Or, to reference a project in a subfolder:

....
/myfolder/myproject
....

=== Relative paths

Relative paths begin with something other than a forward slash, and
refer to another project in relation to the current project. For
example, say you have projects with the following absolute paths:

....
/thatproject
/folder/someproject
/folder/subfolder/myproject
/folder/subfolder/anotherproject
....

In a Pipeline Script for `+/folder/subfolder/myproject+`, you could
refer to `+/folder/subfolder/anotherproject+` using this relative path:

....
anotherproject
....

And you could refer to `+/folder/someproject+` using this relative path,
where `+..+` means to look in the parent folder:

....
../someproject
....

And you could refer to `+/thatproject+` using this relative path:

....
../../thatproject
....

== Referencing components inside projects

Some types of projects — such as Maven projects, Matrix projects, and
Multibranch projects — have subcomponents. You can refer to these
subcomponents as follows:

=== Maven projects

You can refer to an entire Maven project:

> 
> ....
> mymavenproject
> ....
> 
> Or to a group within a Maven project:
> 
> ....
> mymavenproject/my.group
> ....
> 
> Or to a particular module:
> 
> ....
> mymavenproject/my.group$MyModule
> ....
> 
> === Matrix projects
> 
> You can refer to all configurations of a Matrix project:
> 
> ....
> mymatrixproject
> ....
> 
> Or to a particular configuration, restricted by a axis:
> 
> ....
> mymatrixproject/someaxis=somevalue
> ....
> 
> Or restricted by multiple axes:
> 
> ....
> mymatrixproject/someaxis=somevalue,anotheraxis=anothervalue
> ....
> 
> === Multibranch Pipelines
> 
> You can refer to a particular branch:
> 
> ....
> mymultibranchproject/mybranch
> ....
> 
> == Name encoding
> 
> Special characters in paths should be URL-encoded. For example, if your
> Multibranch Pipeline has a branch with a slash in it
> (`+feature/myfeature+`), replace the slash with `+%2F+`:
> 
> ....
> mymultibranchproject/feature%2Fmyfeature
> ....
> 
> == For developers of Jenkins and Jenkins Plugins
> 
> See the
> https://javadoc.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins/model/Jenkins.html#getItem-java.lang.String-hudson.model.ItemGroup-[`+Jenkins::getItem()+`]
> function.

Author: ```suggestion
---
layout: section
title: Referencing another project by name
---

= Referencing another project by name

In many places throughout Jenkins, you can refer to another project/job by name. For example, in a Pipeline Script, you might want to https://plugins.jenkins.io/copyartifact/[copy artifacts] from another project:

....
copyArtifacts projectName: 'myproject'
....

That's all you need to do if your target project's name is simply alphanumeric, and is a simple project without subprojects, and has a unique name throughout your entire Jenkins instance. Read on for more complex scenarios…

== Differentiating between multiple projects with the same name

If you're using the https://plugins.jenkins.io/cloudbees-folder/[Folders Plugin] and you have multiple projects with the same name but are in different folders, you can differentiate between them using a path, similar to a Unix filesystem path. There are two types of paths:

=== Absolute paths

Absolute paths begin with a forward slash, and refer to a project by describing the complete path to navigate to the project from the home page of your Jenkins instance. For example, to reference a project in the root of your Jenkins instance:

....
/myproject
....

Or, to reference a project in a subfolder:

....
/myfolder/myproject
....

=== Relative paths

Relative paths begin with something other than a forward slash, and refer to another project in relation to the current project. For example, say you have projects with the following absolute paths:

....
/thatproject
/folder/someproject
/folder/subfolder/myproject
/folder/subfolder/anotherproject
....

In a Pipeline Script for `+/folder/subfolder/myproject+`, you could refer to `+/folder/subfolder/anotherproject+` using this relative path:

....
anotherproject
....

And you could refer to `+/folder/someproject+` using this relative path, where `+..+` means to look in the parent folder:

....
../someproject
....

And you could refer to `+/thatproject+` using this relative path: 

....
../../thatproject
....

== Referencing components inside projects

Some types of projects — such as Maven projects, Matrix projects, and Multibranch projects — have subcomponents. You can refer to these subcomponents as follows:

=== Maven projects

You can refer to an entire Maven project:

....
mymavenproject
....

Or to a group within a Maven project:

....
mymavenproject/my.group
....

Or to a particular module:

....
mymavenproject/my.group$MyModule
....

=== Matrix projects

You can refer to all configurations of a Matrix project:

....
mymatrixproject
....

Or to a particular configuration, restricted by a axis:

....
mymatrixproject/someaxis=somevalue
....

Or restricted by multiple axes:

....
mymatrixproject/someaxis=somevalue,anotheraxis=anothervalue
....

=== Multibranch Pipelines

You can refer to a particular branch:

....
mymultibranchproject/mybranch
....

== Name encoding

Special characters in paths should be URL-encoded. For example, if your Multibranch Pipeline has a branch with a slash in it (`+feature/myfeature+`), replace the slash with `+%2F+`:

....
mymultibranchproject/feature%2Fmyfeature
....

== For developers of Jenkins and Jenkins Plugins

See the https://javadoc.jenkins-ci.org/jenkins/model/Jenkins.html#getItem-java.lang.String-hudson.model.ItemGroup-[`+Jenkins::getItem()+`] function.
```
